1. Overview 
In this assignment, you are required to: - Implement multiple classification models - 
Build an interactive Streamlit web application to demonstrate your models - Deploy 
the app on Streamlit Community Cloud (FREE) - Share clickable links for evaluation 
You will learn real-world end-to-end ML deployment workflow:  modeling, 
evaluation, UI design, and deployment. 
The assignment has to be performed on BITS Virtual Lab. If you are still facing any 
issue with this, please send an email to neha.vinayak@pilani.bits-pilani.ac.in with 
subject as “ML Assignment 2: BITS Lab issue” and get it resolved at the earliest. 
2. Mandatory Submission Links 
Each submission must be a single PDF file with the following (maintain the order): 
1.  GitHub Repository Link containing 
o  Complete source code 
o  requirements.txt 
o  A clear README.md 
2.  Live Streamlit App Link 
o  Deployed using Streamlit Community Cloud 
o  Must open an interactive frontend when clicked 
3.  Screenshot 
o  Upload screenshot of assignment execution on BITS Virtual Lab 
4.  The Github README content (details mentioned in Section 3 - Step 5) should 
also be part of the submitted PDF file. 
 
As you are comfortable with the BITS Virtual Lab and Taxila Assignment submission 
process now, only ONE submission will be accepted in Assignment 2.  No Resubmission requests will be accepted. 
 
3. Assignment Details 
Step 1: Dataset choice 
Choose ONE classification dataset of your choice from any public repository - 
Kaggle or UCI. It may be a binary classification problem or a multi-class 
classification problem.  Minimum Feature Size: 12 Minimum Instance Size: 500 
Step 2: Machine Learning Classification models and Evaluation metrics 
Implement the following classification models using the dataset chosen above. All 
the 6 ML models have to be implemented on the same dataset. 
1.  Logistic Regression 
2.  Decision Tree Classifier 
3.  K-Nearest Neighbor Classifier 
4.  Naive Bayes Classifier - Gaussian or Multinomial 
5.  Ensemble Model - Random Forest 
6.  Ensemble Model - XGBoost 
For each of the models above, calculate the following evaluation metrics: 
1.  Accuracy 
2.  AUC Score 
3.  Precision 
4.  Recall 
5.  F1 Score 
6.  Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC Score) 
The assignment has to be performed on BITS Virtual Lab and a (ONE) screenshot 
has to be uploaded as a proof of that. [ 1 mark ] 
Step 3: Prepare Your GitHub Repository 
Your repository must contain: 
project-folder/ 
│-- app.py   (or streamlit_app.py) 
│-- requirements.txt 
│-- README.md 
│-- model/ (saved model files for all implemented models - *.py or *.ipynb) 
Step 4: Create requirements.txt 
Example: 
streamlit scikit-learn numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn 
Missing dependencies are the #1 cause of deployment failure. 
Step 5: README.md with the following structure. This README content should also 
be part of the submitted PDF file. Follow the required structure carefully. 
a.  Problem statement  
b.  Dataset description [ 1 mark ] 
c.  Models used: [ 6 marks - 1 marks for all the metrics for each model ] Make a Comparison Table with the evaluation metrics calculated for all the 6  
models as below


ML Model Name   Accuracy    AUC     Precision    Recall   F1    MCC 
Logistic Regression Decision Tree             
kNN             
Naive Bayes             
Random Forest 
(Ensemble)           
XGBoost 
(Ensemble)

Add your observations on the performance of each model on the chosen 
dataset. [ 3 marks ] 
ML Model Name        Observation about model performance 
Logistic Regression 
Decision Tree   
kNN   
Naive Bayes   
Random Forest 
(Ensemble) 
XGBoost 
(Ensemble) 
 
Step 6: Deploy on Streamlit Community Cloud 
1.  Go to https://streamlit.io/cloud 
2.  Sign in using GitHub account 
3.  Click “New App” 
4.  Select your repository 
5.  Choose branch (usually main) 
6.  Select app.py 
7.  Click Deploy 

Within a few minutes, your app will be live. 
Your Streamlit app must include at least the following features : -  
a.  Dataset upload option (CSV) [As streamlit free tier has limited capacity, 
upload only test data] [ 1 mark ] 
b.  Model selection dropdown (if multiple models) [ 1 mark ] 
c.  Display of evaluation metrics [ 1 mark ] 
d.  Confusion matrix or classification report [ 1 mark ] 
5. Anti-Plagiarism & Academic Integrity Guidelines 
To ensure originality we will be performing the following checks. Any plagiarism 
found will result in ZERO (0) marks. 
Code-Level Checks 
●  GitHub commit history will be reviewed 
●  Identical repo structure & variable names may be flagged 
UI-Level Checks 
●  Copy-paste Streamlit templates without customization may be penalized 
Model-Level Checks 
●  Same dataset + same model + same outputs across students will be 
investigated 
Using AI tools is allowed only for learning support, not for direct copy-paste 
submissions. 
8. Final Submission Checklist (Before You Submit) 
☐ GitHub repo link works  
☐ Streamlit app link opens correctly  
☐ App loads without errors  
☐ All required features implemented  
☐ README.md updated and added in the submitted PDF. 
 
 The assignment is for 15 Marks - Model implementation and uploading on Github 
(10 marks) ; Streamlit App Development (4 marks). Additional 1 mark is for 
performing the assignment on BITS Lab and uploading a screenshot of the same. 
No extension of deadlines will be provided. Please submit within the deadline - 15 
Feb 23:59 PM. 
No DRAFT submissions will be accepted. Please remember to SUBMIT your 
assignment. 
Note: There is no leaderboard for this assignment and there will be no comparison 
of model performance across students. 
